as Israel's Siege of Gaza continues a
battle is playing out in the realm of
public opinion while demonstrations have
taken place across the globe in
solidarity with Palestinians there have
also been campaigns to silence critics
of Israel's actions commentators
academics and even common citizens have
reported an increase in threats and
retaliation for expressing their views
or voicing solidarity with the
Palestinian people often in countries
that Proclaim to uphold values of
freedom of expression and democracy so
who decides what the limits of free
speech are and are their double
standards when it comes to Palestine
joining me to discuss this from Chicago
is De M she is founder and director of
Palestine legal and from haa is Elan
Pape he is author of numerous books on
the issue of Israel and Palestine
including the biggest prison on earth a
history of the occupied territories he's
also a professor of history at the
University of exor I want to thank you
both uh for joining me Elan I'm going to
start with you uh at the moment Pro
Palestine protests are being suppressed
in a number of countries across Europe
uh Austria and Germany that they've
blocked protests uh in France we've seen
Pro Palestine demonstrations uh only now
being allowed on a case-by Case basis
when at first there was a total ban on
them uh how do these nations how do they
justify this kind of Crackdown on Free
Speech I I think that they justify it by
accepting and I hope not for too long
the Israeli Narrative of totally dis
historicizing the event of the 7th of
October decontextualizing it uh namely
as if what happened on the 7th of
October uh totally absorbs Israel from
all its criminal policies in the past
and gives a free license for criminal
policies now uh in the present and as
such it is uh immunized by this re kind
of framing any support for the
Palestinian as a support for Terror and
so on I I'm I'm quite confident that
this would not hold water for too long
we already see some of it being kind of
some of the scene changes but uh all in
all you know double double talk about
Palestine hypocrisy about Palestine a
progressive people who are progressive
on anything but on Palestine is not a
new thing in fact the 7th of October
hasn't changed anything fundamental in
the way Israel is covered perceived or
immunized in the west I I like that word
immunized is an interesting one dimma uh
and an important one because even to
elon's point if these large Western
nation states have accepted the Israeli
narrative and they've dehistoricized
October 7th that explains their
political position but what it doesn't
explain is why they're stopping people
from having a different political
position why they why they stop people
from disagreeing I mean the point of
free speech is not to be able to
articulate your point of view when it
goes along with the state narrative the
whole point of these protections
ostensibly is to protect you when it
doesn't so how do how can these
democratic nations justify this kind of
behavior it seems so clearly
anti-democratic it is anti-democratic
and I think it is signaling a a really
quick descent into fascism uh that we're
seeing around the globe um in the United
States there are very strong First
Amendment protections um much stronger
than in Europe and and yet even here we
are seeing a Crackdown on uh descent on
Palestine we're seeing across the board
uh not only government action to surveil
and investigate uh activists for
Palestinian rights but but also in the
private sector uh a purging a a very
mccarth type of purging of uh any
support for Palestinian rights even as
people are mobilizing right now to stop
what international experts have called a
an unfolding genocide and and this is so
dangerous and uh certainly hypocritical
um I I think you know the United States
and European nations have no moral
Authority right now uh as they are uh
you know shutting down this critical
conversation and these critical protests
that are uh challenging what our
governments are allowing to happen Elon
we've seen a very real and concerning
rise in anti-Semitism since October 7th
which of course should be addressed and
taken very seriously and yet the
governments are responding with these
types of bands uh is this the West's
attempt to make amends for centuries of
anti-Semitism yes Mark it is and and I
think that's what I meant that the 7th
of October as dramatic and tragic it as
it is is uh does not change the
fundamental issues that relate to the
the issue of Palestine the whole zus
project was in part uh an attempt to
deal with anti-Semitism in Europe at the
expense of uh of uh the Palestinians he
became even more urgent uh project of of
guilt if you want after the Holocaust
and and it was a very easy way in fact
of not having a closure with Holocaust
in Europe itself or with racism in
America for instance uh by solving this
issue by giving this license to colonize
Palestine and build the Jewish states on
the ruins of Palestine this is something
that uh was there before the 7eventh of
October it just you know uh it comes
back to us in this particular issue of
how it's being covered uh today uh and
how anti-Semitism again is manipulated
by Israel or weaponized rather by Israel
and its supporters in order to suppress
and silence criticism of the policy even
if the criticism is now directed against
actual genocidal policies on the ground
a good example of what you're talking
about Elon just happened the Israeli
ambassador to the UN gilad erdan has
called for the body's Secretary General
Antonio gz's resignation and even
accused him of blood liable after he
said that the Hamas attack was
horrifying and unjustified but quote did
not occur in a vacuum
Israel has also said that it will ban un
representatives from visiting the
country to quote teach them a lesson DEA
were you surprised at this
reaction well it's what Elan is saying
and uh you know it is an attempt to
completely
dehistoricized to Shield Israel from any
criticism or accountability um you know
the Israel has been on a path to
delegitimize the United Nations to
undermine uh all institutions that try
to uphold international law um because
it is in fundamental and flagrant
violation of international law and the
only way that it can uh avoid that is is
by undermining the entire system and
this is the danger um and and the
European and Nations and the united
states are following in that path of
completely undermining any uh any
protections that we have in the
International Community against these
egregious violations of of international
law that were ironically put in place uh
post World War II to prevent what
happened in Europe and to to Jews and
other minorities from happening again
and it's also about uh again erasing
Palestinians and Palestinian history and
experience from from this conversation
many people are
experiencing very real troubles legal
troubles they're they're coming under
attack Etc I your organization Palestine
legal uh Works uh to protect people's
rights at least here in the United
States what kind of cases are you seeing
now uh from people who have been
offering critiques or protests of of of
what's happening in Israel and Palestine
Mark we've seen an exponential increase
in requests for legal help in the last
two weeks um almost as many as we saw in
all of last year um so the attack is
widespread and it's far
reaching a lot of what we're seeing are
employment consequences for people who
post something or speak out in their
workplaces or uh share their opinion on
what's going on and uh a number of of uh
dozens of incidents of people being
fired or investigated by their employers
uh students in particular are being
severely doxed and harassed and even
targeted by their own universities for
uh their advocacy and their activism and
their protests right now and this is not
new uh we have been documenting over the
last decade that Palestine legal has
existed a Palestine exception to free
speech and these exact same tactics but
it is being escalated at an exponential
rate Elon you are a an imminent scholar
uh and you're also known as one of the
new historians those Israeli Scholars uh
who have questioned the official Israeli
Narrative of the state's creation
arguing that uh in your words events
were quote much closer to the
Palestinian historical narrative than to
the Zionist one uh you've questioned the
Zionist project which many people
believe is anti-Semitic as such uh
looking at those who now claim that
expressing solidarity with Palestinians
after October 7th is fundamentally
anti-jewish I I can't help but draw a
little bit of a parallel here um how are
we still in a place where voicing any
kind of support for Palestinians is
deemed anti-semitic or any critique of
Israel is
anti-Semitic well I I think Mar depends
who we're talking about I think in what
one can Define as a civil society if I
compare it to the 1980s for instance I
think there's a deeper and more profound
understanding of the difference between
Judaism and Zionism and therefore the
difference between anti-zionism and
anti-Semitism I think one of the
challenges we have those of us who are
being attacked either either as
anti-sites or in my case as a
self-hating Jew one one of the the
problems we have that we cannot answer
these challenges with sound bite uh we
need we need we need space to explain
because we are facing a project of
propaganda in FA ation and immunization
and also weaponization of anti-Semitism
not that that began many many years ago
and is supported by a state so so we
cannot challenge this with sound bit and
I think that's why it takes time to make
Headway into the uh public domain and to
the political discourse but we should
insist on this I I guess the question
for me DEA is how you know because I
agree with everything Elan just said
there's no space for nuance uh the
public opinion is very uh polarized at
the moment and a lot of it is because
people are speaking in sound bites
there's no room to have a complicated
conversation here uh how do we close
that Gap how do we have the
Nuance well Mark I think you know well
this is a a narrative battle as as much
as it is a political one um we are
talking about a settler colonial state
that has dispossessed a people of their
Homeland and that has tried to replace
it with another population and uh that
is the fundamental re uh truth that we
have to go back to um you know when
we're talking about a a state's actions
um this is a state that describes itself
itself as Jewish that claims Jewish
Supremacy as a as its its foundation um
and that is what we have to be talking
about uh this is an
exclusivist uh ethn nationalist state
that is uh founded on the eradication
expulsion ethnic cleansing of another
people and if we can't uh uh oppose and
criticize this state and if we are
allowing our elected officials to pass
legislation um that that defines
anti-Semitism as uh you know any
criticism of Israel which is what's
happening right now across the across
the globe and um this this debate and
this Nuance uh can't happen Elon how do
we close the gap how do we create space
for historicizing this this struggle
yeah I I think that we we should insist
of of having the conversation on our
terms uh uh instead of uh sitting in in
studios or whatever we are attacked and
uh apologizing or defending our s by
saying no we are not anti-sites and we
should just be patient and build our
campaign because it is build on Truth we
have allies in in the global South we
have allies in the global North we can
build a campaign because it's so absurd
and it's such a fabricated accusation
allegation that it should not hold water
even if it's still enables uh
institutions to get rid of people and so
on uh this is a form of racism to to to
uh you know to accuse you of being a
racist by being an anti-zionist or even
criticizing Israel it means that you are
a victim of racism yourself uh and
that's the way it should be F to my
mindan de M thank you both so much for
joining me on up front that is our show
up front we'll be back next
week